Active Directory is a directory that is developed by Microsoft to manage Windows domain environment. It stores information related to objects such as Computers, Users etc. 
(Phone book for Windows) It performs authentication using Kerberos tickets. Non-Windows devices can perform authentication process through RADIUS or LDAP.

Active Directory is one of the most commonly used identity management service. In this type of assessment, I generally focus on abusing features, trusts, misconfigurations,
components and more.

Physical Active Directory Components
1) Domain Controllers
A DC is a server with the AD DS server role installed that has specifically been promoted to a domain controller. DCs host a copy of the AD DS directory store, provide
authentication and authorization services, replicate updates to other domain controllers in the domain and forest, allow administrative access to manage user accounts and 
network resources.

2) AD DS Data Store
The AD DS Data Store contains the database files and processes that store and manage directory information for users, services and applications. It consists of the Ntds.dit
file. It is stored by default in the %SystemRoot%\NTDS on all domain controllers. It is only accessible only through DC processes and protocols.

Logical Active Directory Components
1) AD DS Schema (Rule book / Blueprint)
It defines every type of object that can be stored in the directory. It enforces rules regarding object creation and configuration.
Object types can be broken into two categories : Class Object and Attribute Object.

2) Domains
Domains are used to group and manage objects in an organization. An administrative boundary for applying policies to group of objects. A replication boundary for replicating
data between domain controllers. An authentication and authorization boundary that provides a way to limit the scope of access to resources.

3) Trees
A domain tree is a hierarchy of domains in AD DS.

4) Forests
A forest is a collection of one or more domain trees.

5) Organizational Units (OUs)
OUs are Active Directory containers that can contain users, groups, computers and other OUs. OUs are used to represent your organization hierarchically and logically,
manage a collection of objects in a consistent way, delegate permissions to administer groups of objects, apply policies.

6) Trusts
Trusts provide a mechanism for users to gain access to resources in another domain.

Source : Microsoft Virtual Academy
